index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Welcome
tagline: Attempting to solve dependent care during COVID-19
description: Welcome page
---
These efforts are being implemented on an evolving ad hoc basis by [Seemay and James](mailto:seemayandjames@fraserlab.com), in parallel to the work being done by the Child & Dependent Care Taskforce. We are focused specifically on those needs in the basic science research community at UCSF so that we can target unique challenges that are difficult to address at a campus-wide level. Your input is welcomed to clarify next steps, which are being defined as we go based on your feedback.

### UPDATE, 7/29/20

A group of UCSF Pediatricians and health professionals have formed a Collaborative to Advise on Re-opening Education Safely (CARES). They will be hosting [webinars](https://ucsf.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_1ERXzjZ3lItb34V?Q_CHL=qr) in August on “What we know about Children and COVID-19 Transmission”, “Considerations for Preparing for In-Person Learning during COVID-19”, and "Supporting Children during Remote Learning with an Emphasis on Equity and Mental Health". 


QBI presents "Science in the Time of Corona", a live show where scientists discuss how COVID-19 has changed science. [On August 20th at noon](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/has-covid-19-changed-how-women-and-mothers-do-research-tickets-115255436112) join QBI for a discussion with two researchers in the QCRG about the unique impacts that COVID-19 has had on women and mothers in science. Event Description: Some have suggested that working from home presents a setback for women in science, but are there also lessons we can learn or positive changes to carry into the future? In this discussion we will hear from two women in science about their experiences doing research from home during quarantine, and talk about future implications of remote conferences and working from home for women and mothers in science. Panelists: Danica Fujimori - Professor, Cellular Molecular Pharmacology - QBI and UCSF, Ruth Huttenhain - Assistant Professor, Cellular Molecular Pharmacology - QBI and UCSF; Host: Leila Shokat - Media Anthropology - QBI


### UPDATE, 7/27/20

In response to the second survey, now closed, our next step is to provide connections between families to help organize into “pods” of shared dependent care responsibilities. For respondents who opted-in, we compiled survey results and created Google groups to facilitate introductions between families in the following regions:  Peninsula and South Bay, SF and North Bay, East Bay.   The Google groups provide families with access to a directory (names, contact, ages of kids, caregiving duties needed) to enable sharing of childcare duties.  We will also be providing families with guidance on best practices for forming pods, if they choose to self-organize into groups. We imagine this will be an iterative process that will rely heavily on feedback and success of this first round of matching. We have contracted with an experienced educator to assist with forming groups and answering logistical questions and concerns. Please keep [equity](https://www.sfchronicle.com/education/article/Pandemic-pods-Unfair-option-for-the-privileged-15430625.php) in mind when forming groups, as many UCSF employees do not have the same access to childcare, financial resources, and work-from-home options.  

We will continue to provide updates through this website, so please let us know at any time if you would like to be added to a Google group. In this case, simply send us an e-mail that you are willing to share the following information with UCSF colleagues from your area:  name, email address, affiliation, age group of dependents, neighborhood/zip-code, work site, dependent care options you are interested in.  If you consent to share this information, you will be added to a Google group and spreadsheet for all families seeking childcare solutions in your region of the Bay Area.  

Our next efforts will be compiling the results of the surveys for communicating the extent of the crisis to department heads and PIs, and to begin the helping people find relief from work duties this Fall. 

**There will be Postdoc specific zoom calls today at [1PM](https://ucsf.zoom.us/j/94387254593?pwd=Yk1sOUdiTTlTU2RTR0hvRUEybU1pZz09) and [8:30PM](https://ucsf.zoom.us/j/91098023510?pwd=RUR1MWVqQW5TL0V2Z1lhRkhTWFdPdz09)**

### UPDATE, 7/24/20

- We have put up a new [link](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/117qs2bLJxoSk4uSOWm2ogz9UEp7l4PAnd77zZcN1UY8/edit) at the side of this web page where you can enter (even anonymously) specifics about how COVID has impacted you (grants, papers, research, leadership positions). This is optional but helpful for us to maintain a growing record of real consequences from this crisis that we will need to pay attention to. Ideally, it would be good to connect this information with demographics, so we can also quantify the impacts on diversity and inclusion.

- In light of the unique needs that students and postdocs have, we are organizing the following:
	- Students: a zoom forum with us tonight (Thurs) at 9pm by [zoom](https://ucsf.zoom.us/j/92380211869?pwd=ckR0Q1k2cC9mWjhJejlYako1TGR1Zz09) and Fri at 9am by [zoom](https://ucsf.zoom.us/j/92530566566?pwd=a2FBZ0l2d2JPQUwvd05DVXZaVWtFZz09). This will allow us to get feedback and establish a direct line of communication for how we can amplify efforts to support them. Anyone is welcome.
	- Postdocs: postdoc Juliane Winkler on the childcare taskforce and assistant professor Ian Seiple will be spearheading a similar effort for postdocs. Stay tuned for updates from Juliane and Ian on how they will help organize. We anticipate a postdocs-specific Zoom forum for this soon. Thank you to Ian for stepping up - we will be in great need of support by others like him who are not battling dependency care issues at this time. If you’d like to help, let us know so that we can have you on our radar to delegate actions to.
	
- Thanks so much to all who have shown interest in personally donating. We are actively trying to figure out how to set up a fund to do this and coordinate this with our data collection such that it can go to those most in need.

- The childcare taskforce met this morning to iron out details regarding the recommendations they will be making to leadership. We shared our approach and some of our results with them there. For brevity, we summarize here some of the key takeaways from that discussion. More details on this will be forthcoming.
	- Survey: there will be a broader survey coming soon, similar to the first one we sent out to the basic science research community, to gather numbers to inform needs/approaches. Please try to fill this out - we understand that there will likely be survey fatigue, but it really does help to communicate the extent of the crisis to leadership and guide decisions.
	- Testing: in addition to clarifying guidelines around symptomatic testing, there will be a push for asymptomatic surveillance testing. This signals a transition from response to prevention, which is key. We conveyed how important this was to allow caregivers the option to participate in solutions, as money is not the only barrier to solving problems - safety is also a chief concern.
	- $$$: there is discussion about providing some $ relief through either reimbursements or stipends. This is highly preliminary as they still need to iron out details in terms of who has greatest need, amount that can be given, and how.
	- Additional resources: it is clear from the committee’s analysis and also our survey that there is no one-size-fits-all solution. We have to provide a diverse menu of options and make things like distributing funds, forming pods, transportation, work relief as easy as possible. 
	- Communication from leadership: it’s clear that there needs to be something soon to acknowledge the extent of the dependency care crisis, and this should come up not just through one message but throughout meetings given that there is little separation between work and home life during this pandemic.
	- NEED ALL HANDS ON DECK: we need all members of our community to pitch in. We all know very well that Science is a team sport. We need to help our teammates as much as possible if we want to come out of this OK. We will be calling on those without caregiving responsibilities to help, so we encourage you to do the same.


### UPDATE, 7/22/10:

We have also posted a summary of the first (now closed) survey [here](/pages/survey.html). **If you are interested in participating in the work relief or caregiving match program, please fill out this [second survey](https://forms.gle/Z6uJP9XYiVPhvSLb6), by Friday, noon.**

### UPDATE, 7/21/10:

We have now received 259 responses to our initial survey, which will close tomorrow (Wed) at noon. Final results from this survey will be updated below afterwards. To keep the momentum going, we are going to go ahead and initiate our follow-up survey so that we can begin processing the data for matching ASAP. We will start by matching families together and then work to try to get caregivers matched up for groups that do not have bandwidth to find caregivers. **If you are interested in participating in the work relief or caregiving match program, please fill out this [second survey](https://forms.gle/Z6uJP9XYiVPhvSLb6), by Friday, noon.**

We will leave the survey open after Friday, so that you may still be added to match groups on a rolling-basis (we will do our best to initiate a new round of matches every Friday) if you change your mind later. If you have any questions, feel free to [e-mail us](mailto:seemayandjames@gmail.com)

### Context:
Building on the intial work by

* Tejal Desai, PhD, Professor Department of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences
* Hana El-Samad, PhD, Professor, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics
* Danica Fujimori, PhD, Professor, Departments of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Chemistry
* Noelle L’Etoile, PhD, Associate Professor, Department of Cell and Tissue Biology
* Susanna Rosi, PhD, Professor, Departments of Physical Therapy Rehabilitation Science and Neurosurgery
* Lauren A. Weiss, PhD, Associate Professor, Department of Psychiatry
* Seemay Chou, PhD, Assistant Professor, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics

The idea that UCSF should prioritize an Equitable Recovery was set down in a [letter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hyuL_n6lnId7bi0sOwUi0FYE5cyNfYE41ohybmYY6XQ/edit) delivered to campus leaders on 5/4/2020. This spurred a broader call to arms in the Bay Area in an [op-ed](https://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/openforum/article/Enabling-economic-and-equitable-recovery-in-the-15293604.php) by several of these faculty and other women in STEM. In response, an initial Equitable Recovery Taskforce was formed at UCSF to advise on next actionable next steps. Since then, several task forces have been launched as UCSF moves to the next phase of COVID-19 operations. [Seemay Chou and James Fraser](mailto:seemayandjames@fraserlab.com) are on the Child & Dependent Care task force that falls within this larger umbrella of efforts. To  help meet the urgent needs of the science research community, which are often distinct from the clinical community, and to update on the progress that the Child & Dependent Care task force is making, we are communicating through this website.


## ~~Goal #1: Create website that updates on the resources available and taskforce actions~~ (completed July 19)

This website will initially be specific to the research community at UCSF and update on the latest developments. We hope to provide news and updated resources on a regular basis so you are aware of what is going on.

We have also posted a summary of the first survey [here](/pages/survey.html).

## Goal #2: Relief from work duties this Fall (get people matched by mid-August)

**A [second survey](https://forms.gle/Z6uJP9XYiVPhvSLb6)**  asks for work responsibilities (e.g. teaching relief, mentorship sharing, committee service, cover for leadership roles, technician or editing services for trainees) that need to be covered in light of caregiver duties. We will do our best to activate others without caregiver responsibilities to share some of this burden. Ideas include teaching, pairing labs for joint lab meetings/mentorship, committee service, temporary cover for leadership roles.

## ~~Goal #3: Match parents with each other to enable shared caregiving~~  (on-going, but see 7/27/20 update above!)

* We are linking parents, grouped based on your children's age group(s) and your geographic location. We hope to enable you to self-organize into cohorts to share efforts/costs. We will start by matching families together. Our next focus will be to try to get caregivers matched up for groups that do not have bandwidth to find caregivers, initially focusing on trainees with needs in this area. 

* We note that “expanding your bubble” comes with a safety risk and good advice for childcare settings is compiled [here](https://cchp.ucsf.edu/). A reference on the effectiveness of liability waivers is [here](https://www.abajournal.com/web/article/understanding-liability-waivers-in-the-age-of-covid-19). A sample Risk Acknowledgment form is [here](/assets/pdfs/RISK.pdf) and a sample Waiver is [here](/assets/pdfs/WAIVER.pdf). 

* Existing UCSF resources for finding childcare are listed [here](https://campuslifeservices.ucsf.edu/familyservices/35/update_child_care_closures_and_alternative_care). 

## Goal #4: Expand surveillance testing to groups organized in #3 (ongoing)

James is in the testing subgroup of the Childcare Taskforce. Surveillance testing has only recently been established within the highly controlled environment of UCSF childcare run by Bright Horizons. While this roll out has been slower than many would like, it is one of the first surveillance testing programs in the city. Moreover, the purpose of surveillance testing is to stop the spread of infections early, not to provide a sense of security that individuals are not infected. Surveillance testing options will likely have higher false positive and higher false negative rates than current testing options. We will argue for expanding testing to assembled cohorts and transfer lessons learned from the UCSF childcare to our community.

## Goal #5: Find $ support (ongoing)

Our follow-up survey will ask for more info from you on the urgency and amount of $ needed. Currently, work by Seemay and James is being generously supported by the [Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics](http://biochemistry.ucsf.edu), [CZ Biohub](https://www.czbiohub.org), and [QBI](qbi.ucsf.edu), but we are in need of much more to equitably enable nearly half of our workforce.  We are working directly with Dan Lowenstein and finance and development offices to ease/clarify restrictions on funds for childcare. We are also trying to activate departments and donors to contribute once we have that figured out. Some of you have also asked about donating personally, which we are looking into. We will prioritize those in most need, with an understanding that trainees are in an extremely tough spot. If you have any leads on potential donors, please let us know.

## Goal #6: Communicate extent of crisis to department heads or PIs (in 2 weeks)

For faculty, we will send your chairs an anonymized summary of the data we collected, both broadly and specific to your department. For trainees and staff, we send an anonymized summary of the data we collected for your relative career stage to your PIs or supervisors and identify a point person/mentor to monitor your needs and advocate on your behalf moving forward. We will reinforce the message that chairs and PIs need to explicitly acknowledge the crisis and its impacts. We will also be calling on them to shore up $ support for your dependent care. We hope to identify individuals who can help write internal letters for merits/promotions for those significantly impacted by this crisis.


### Please [email us](mailto:seemayandjames@fraserlab.com) suggestions or questions!

Thank you also to Ben Barad for technical support!

Commit message:

updated weekly news and new survey

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Welcome
tagline: Attempting to solve dependent care during COVID-19
description: Welcome page
---
These efforts are being implemented on an evolving ad hoc basis by [Seemay and James](mailto:seemayandjames@fraserlab.com), in parallel to the work being done by the Child & Dependent Care Taskforce. We are focused specifically on those needs in the basic science research community at UCSF so that we can target unique challenges that are difficult to address at a campus-wide level. Your input is welcomed to clarify next steps, which are being defined as we go based on your feedback.

## UPDATE, 8/7/20
A few updates from this week:

- UCSF Family Services/YMCA Learning Camps coming to three UCSF campuses. Daily schedule is Monday-Friday, 7am-6pm; enrollment is for four-week sessions with priority enrollment for UCSF families. First session begins August 17. Fee: $285/week (scholarships available). Registration starts at noon, Friday, August 7, for UCSF employees and students who work on site. Spaces are limited and registration is first come, first served. [Click here for Learning Camps enrollment and more program details](http://tiny.ucsf.edu/ymca)


- The UCSF-wide childcare taskforce met yesterday to finalize some of the recommendations we will be making to leadership for testing, surveys, and additional resources. **If there is interest, James and I would be open to having an informal basic science community zoom to field questions about the taskforce.** Please [e-mail](mailto:seemayandjames@gmail.com) us directly if you feel strongly about this or have additional questions.

- Parent groups were matched based on our recent surveys (and those who consented), and we have incorporated UC Berkeley parents into the East Bay group (thank you to Ksenia Krasileva for facilitating expansion). We understand that it is very difficult to get the conversation going, so **we have scheduled three zooms next week to give matched parent groups an opportunity to connect and ask questions** around podding and childcare this Fall.  This optional meeting will be a combination of logistical updates, guidance for best practices, and open discussion time.  They will be  holding additional meetings for SF/North Bay (Monday, 8/10, 8PM), East Bay (Tuesday, 8/11, 8PM), South Bay (Wednesday, 8/12, 8PM).  [E-mail](mailto:seemayandjames@gmail.com) us if you would like the Zoom url.

- There is a lot of ongoing confusion about what research or discretionary funds can be used for in terms of COVID relief for faculty, staff, and trainees. Seemay is working closely with the administration to try and clarify (and hopefully relax) some of these restrictions. **If you have experienced any frustrations or success using funding for COVID relief in your lab, it would be really helpful if you could let Seemay know by entering your experience into the short survey link [here](https://forms.gle/XF3WKpp2zz3doQ8G6) and on the right side of this website.** This will give us more context to sort through inconsistencies and find best practices. We hope to at some point have a useful FAQ page on this.

- Students and postdocs in basic science are getting a **grassroots survey spearheaded by Noelle L’Etoile to get insight into what additional expenses UCSF trainees are incurring** during this time. These will be distributed by some of the grad programs and others. See survey [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd57s6WHlsv_4fj32ueM2RCe7K2NNUyjStQogcLvh4PXrSKCg/viewform?usp=sf_link), and e-mail Noelle if you have any questions.


### UPDATE, 7/29/20

A group of UCSF Pediatricians and health professionals have formed a Collaborative to Advise on Re-opening Education Safely (CARES). They will be hosting [webinars](https://ucsf.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_1ERXzjZ3lItb34V?Q_CHL=qr) in August on “What we know about Children and COVID-19 Transmission”, “Considerations for Preparing for In-Person Learning during COVID-19”, and "Supporting Children during Remote Learning with an Emphasis on Equity and Mental Health". 


QBI presents "Science in the Time of Corona", a live show where scientists discuss how COVID-19 has changed science. [On August 20th at noon](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/has-covid-19-changed-how-women-and-mothers-do-research-tickets-115255436112) join QBI for a discussion with two researchers in the QCRG about the unique impacts that COVID-19 has had on women and mothers in science. Event Description: Some have suggested that working from home presents a setback for women in science, but are there also lessons we can learn or positive changes to carry into the future? In this discussion we will hear from two women in science about their experiences doing research from home during quarantine, and talk about future implications of remote conferences and working from home for women and mothers in science. Panelists: Danica Fujimori - Professor, Cellular Molecular Pharmacology - QBI and UCSF, Ruth Huttenhain - Assistant Professor, Cellular Molecular Pharmacology - QBI and UCSF; Host: Leila Shokat - Media Anthropology - QBI


### UPDATE, 7/27/20

In response to the second survey, now closed, our next step is to provide connections between families to help organize into “pods” of shared dependent care responsibilities. For respondents who opted-in, we compiled survey results and created Google groups to facilitate introductions between families in the following regions:  Peninsula and South Bay, SF and North Bay, East Bay.   The Google groups provide families with access to a directory (names, contact, ages of kids, caregiving duties needed) to enable sharing of childcare duties.  We will also be providing families with guidance on best practices for forming pods, if they choose to self-organize into groups. We imagine this will be an iterative process that will rely heavily on feedback and success of this first round of matching. We have contracted with an experienced educator to assist with forming groups and answering logistical questions and concerns. Please keep [equity](https://www.sfchronicle.com/education/article/Pandemic-pods-Unfair-option-for-the-privileged-15430625.php) in mind when forming groups, as many UCSF employees do not have the same access to childcare, financial resources, and work-from-home options.  

We will continue to provide updates through this website, so please let us know at any time if you would like to be added to a Google group. In this case, simply send us an e-mail that you are willing to share the following information with UCSF colleagues from your area:  name, email address, affiliation, age group of dependents, neighborhood/zip-code, work site, dependent care options you are interested in.  If you consent to share this information, you will be added to a Google group and spreadsheet for all families seeking childcare solutions in your region of the Bay Area.  

Our next efforts will be compiling the results of the surveys for communicating the extent of the crisis to department heads and PIs, and to begin the helping people find relief from work duties this Fall. 

**There will be Postdoc specific zoom calls today at [1PM](https://ucsf.zoom.us/j/94387254593?pwd=Yk1sOUdiTTlTU2RTR0hvRUEybU1pZz09) and [8:30PM](https://ucsf.zoom.us/j/91098023510?pwd=RUR1MWVqQW5TL0V2Z1lhRkhTWFdPdz09)**

### UPDATE, 7/24/20

- We have put up a new [link](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/117qs2bLJxoSk4uSOWm2ogz9UEp7l4PAnd77zZcN1UY8/edit) at the side of this web page where you can enter (even anonymously) specifics about how COVID has impacted you (grants, papers, research, leadership positions). This is optional but helpful for us to maintain a growing record of real consequences from this crisis that we will need to pay attention to. Ideally, it would be good to connect this information with demographics, so we can also quantify the impacts on diversity and inclusion.

- In light of the unique needs that students and postdocs have, we are organizing the following:
	- Students: a zoom forum with us tonight (Thurs) at 9pm by [zoom](https://ucsf.zoom.us/j/92380211869?pwd=ckR0Q1k2cC9mWjhJejlYako1TGR1Zz09) and Fri at 9am by [zoom](https://ucsf.zoom.us/j/92530566566?pwd=a2FBZ0l2d2JPQUwvd05DVXZaVWtFZz09). This will allow us to get feedback and establish a direct line of communication for how we can amplify efforts to support them. Anyone is welcome.
	- Postdocs: postdoc Juliane Winkler on the childcare taskforce and assistant professor Ian Seiple will be spearheading a similar effort for postdocs. Stay tuned for updates from Juliane and Ian on how they will help organize. We anticipate a postdocs-specific Zoom forum for this soon. Thank you to Ian for stepping up - we will be in great need of support by others like him who are not battling dependency care issues at this time. If you’d like to help, let us know so that we can have you on our radar to delegate actions to.
	
- Thanks so much to all who have shown interest in personally donating. We are actively trying to figure out how to set up a fund to do this and coordinate this with our data collection such that it can go to those most in need.

- The childcare taskforce met this morning to iron out details regarding the recommendations they will be making to leadership. We shared our approach and some of our results with them there. For brevity, we summarize here some of the key takeaways from that discussion. More details on this will be forthcoming.
	- Survey: there will be a broader survey coming soon, similar to the first one we sent out to the basic science research community, to gather numbers to inform needs/approaches. Please try to fill this out - we understand that there will likely be survey fatigue, but it really does help to communicate the extent of the crisis to leadership and guide decisions.
	- Testing: in addition to clarifying guidelines around symptomatic testing, there will be a push for asymptomatic surveillance testing. This signals a transition from response to prevention, which is key. We conveyed how important this was to allow caregivers the option to participate in solutions, as money is not the only barrier to solving problems - safety is also a chief concern.
	- $$$: there is discussion about providing some $ relief through either reimbursements or stipends. This is highly preliminary as they still need to iron out details in terms of who has greatest need, amount that can be given, and how.
	- Additional resources: it is clear from the committee’s analysis and also our survey that there is no one-size-fits-all solution. We have to provide a diverse menu of options and make things like distributing funds, forming pods, transportation, work relief as easy as possible. 
	- Communication from leadership: it’s clear that there needs to be something soon to acknowledge the extent of the dependency care crisis, and this should come up not just through one message but throughout meetings given that there is little separation between work and home life during this pandemic.
	- NEED ALL HANDS ON DECK: we need all members of our community to pitch in. We all know very well that Science is a team sport. We need to help our teammates as much as possible if we want to come out of this OK. We will be calling on those without caregiving responsibilities to help, so we encourage you to do the same.


### UPDATE, 7/22/10:

We have also posted a summary of the first (now closed) survey [here](/pages/survey.html). **If you are interested in participating in the work relief or caregiving match program, please fill out this [second survey](https://forms.gle/Z6uJP9XYiVPhvSLb6), by Friday, noon.**

### UPDATE, 7/21/10:

We have now received 259 responses to our initial survey, which will close tomorrow (Wed) at noon. Final results from this survey will be updated below afterwards. To keep the momentum going, we are going to go ahead and initiate our follow-up survey so that we can begin processing the data for matching ASAP. We will start by matching families together and then work to try to get caregivers matched up for groups that do not have bandwidth to find caregivers. **If you are interested in participating in the work relief or caregiving match program, please fill out this [second survey](https://forms.gle/Z6uJP9XYiVPhvSLb6), by Friday, noon.**

We will leave the survey open after Friday, so that you may still be added to match groups on a rolling-basis (we will do our best to initiate a new round of matches every Friday) if you change your mind later. If you have any questions, feel free to [e-mail us](mailto:seemayandjames@gmail.com)

### Context:
Building on the intial work by

* Tejal Desai, PhD, Professor Department of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences
* Hana El-Samad, PhD, Professor, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics
* Danica Fujimori, PhD, Professor, Departments of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Chemistry
* Noelle L’Etoile, PhD, Associate Professor, Department of Cell and Tissue Biology
* Susanna Rosi, PhD, Professor, Departments of Physical Therapy Rehabilitation Science and Neurosurgery
* Lauren A. Weiss, PhD, Associate Professor, Department of Psychiatry
* Seemay Chou, PhD, Assistant Professor, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics

The idea that UCSF should prioritize an Equitable Recovery was set down in a [letter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hyuL_n6lnId7bi0sOwUi0FYE5cyNfYE41ohybmYY6XQ/edit) delivered to campus leaders on 5/4/2020. This spurred a broader call to arms in the Bay Area in an [op-ed](https://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/openforum/article/Enabling-economic-and-equitable-recovery-in-the-15293604.php) by several of these faculty and other women in STEM. In response, an initial Equitable Recovery Taskforce was formed at UCSF to advise on next actionable next steps. Since then, several task forces have been launched as UCSF moves to the next phase of COVID-19 operations. [Seemay Chou and James Fraser](mailto:seemayandjames@fraserlab.com) are on the Child & Dependent Care task force that falls within this larger umbrella of efforts. To  help meet the urgent needs of the science research community, which are often distinct from the clinical community, and to update on the progress that the Child & Dependent Care task force is making, we are communicating through this website.


## ~~Goal #1: Create website that updates on the resources available and taskforce actions~~ (completed July 19)

This website will initially be specific to the research community at UCSF and update on the latest developments. We hope to provide news and updated resources on a regular basis so you are aware of what is going on.

We have also posted a summary of the first survey [here](/pages/survey.html).

## Goal #2: Relief from work duties this Fall (get people matched by mid-August)

**A [second survey](https://forms.gle/Z6uJP9XYiVPhvSLb6)**  asks for work responsibilities (e.g. teaching relief, mentorship sharing, committee service, cover for leadership roles, technician or editing services for trainees) that need to be covered in light of caregiver duties. We will do our best to activate others without caregiver responsibilities to share some of this burden. Ideas include teaching, pairing labs for joint lab meetings/mentorship, committee service, temporary cover for leadership roles.

## ~~Goal #3: Match parents with each other to enable shared caregiving~~  (on-going, but see 7/27/20 update above!)

* We are linking parents, grouped based on your children's age group(s) and your geographic location. We hope to enable you to self-organize into cohorts to share efforts/costs. We will start by matching families together. Our next focus will be to try to get caregivers matched up for groups that do not have bandwidth to find caregivers, initially focusing on trainees with needs in this area. 

* We note that “expanding your bubble” comes with a safety risk and good advice for childcare settings is compiled [here](https://cchp.ucsf.edu/). A reference on the effectiveness of liability waivers is [here](https://www.abajournal.com/web/article/understanding-liability-waivers-in-the-age-of-covid-19). A sample Risk Acknowledgment form is [here](/assets/pdfs/RISK.pdf) and a sample Waiver is [here](/assets/pdfs/WAIVER.pdf). 

* Existing UCSF resources for finding childcare are listed [here](https://campuslifeservices.ucsf.edu/familyservices/35/update_child_care_closures_and_alternative_care). 

## Goal #4: Expand surveillance testing to groups organized in #3 (ongoing)

James is in the testing subgroup of the Childcare Taskforce. Surveillance testing has only recently been established within the highly controlled environment of UCSF childcare run by Bright Horizons. While this roll out has been slower than many would like, it is one of the first surveillance testing programs in the city. Moreover, the purpose of surveillance testing is to stop the spread of infections early, not to provide a sense of security that individuals are not infected. Surveillance testing options will likely have higher false positive and higher false negative rates than current testing options. We will argue for expanding testing to assembled cohorts and transfer lessons learned from the UCSF childcare to our community.

## Goal #5: Find $ support (ongoing)

Our follow-up survey will ask for more info from you on the urgency and amount of $ needed. Currently, work by Seemay and James is being generously supported by the [Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics](http://biochemistry.ucsf.edu), [CZ Biohub](https://www.czbiohub.org), and [QBI](qbi.ucsf.edu), but we are in need of much more to equitably enable nearly half of our workforce.  We are working directly with Dan Lowenstein and finance and development offices to ease/clarify restrictions on funds for childcare. We are also trying to activate departments and donors to contribute once we have that figured out. Some of you have also asked about donating personally, which we are looking into. We will prioritize those in most need, with an understanding that trainees are in an extremely tough spot. If you have any leads on potential donors, please let us know.

## Goal #6: Communicate extent of crisis to department heads or PIs (in 2 weeks)

For faculty, we will send your chairs an anonymized summary of the data we collected, both broadly and specific to your department. For trainees and staff, we send an anonymized summary of the data we collected for your relative career stage to your PIs or supervisors and identify a point person/mentor to monitor your needs and advocate on your behalf moving forward. We will reinforce the message that chairs and PIs need to explicitly acknowledge the crisis and its impacts. We will also be calling on them to shore up $ support for your dependent care. We hope to identify individuals who can help write internal letters for merits/promotions for those significantly impacted by this crisis.


### Please [email us](mailto:seemayandjames@fraserlab.com) suggestions or questions!

Thank you also to Ben Barad for technical support!
